.TH LIBSIMPLE_ENREALLOC 3 2018-11-03 libsimple
.SH NAME
libsimple_enrealloc \- reallocate memory or die
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libsimple.h>

void *libsimple_enrealloc(int \fIstatus\fP, void *\fIptr\fP, size_t \fIn\fP);
static inline void *libsimple_erealloc(void *\fIptr\fP, size_t \fIn\fP);

#ifndef enrealloc
# define enrealloc libsimple_enrealloc
#endif
#ifndef erealloc
# define erealloc libsimple_erealloc
#endif
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lsimple .
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR libsimple_enrealloc ()
and
.BR libsimple_erealloc ()
functions are wrappers for the
.BR realloc (3)
function, they reallocate memory allocated on the
heap and return the old pointer or a new pointer
with an alignment of
.I alignof(max_align_t)
to the allocated memory of
.I n
bytes. The returned pointer will contain the
same content as
.IR ptr ,
but truncated to
.I n
bytes if it is smaller or with the new bytes
uninitialised if it is larger. If a new pointer
is returned, rather than
.IR ptr ,
.I ptr
is deallocated. The function
.BR free (3)
shall be called with the returned pointer as
input when the allocated memory is no longer needed.
.PP
The
.BR libsimple_enrealloc ()
and
.BR libsimple_erealloc ()
functions will terminate the process if the memory
cannot be allocated (or if
.I n
is 0 and
.BR realloc (3)
returns
.B NULL
when it is used to allocate 0 bytes), by calling the
.BR libsimple_enprintf ()
and
.BR libsimple_eprintf ()
functions, respectively.
On failure, the process's exit value will be
.I status
if the
.BR libsimple_enrealloc ()
function is used or
.IR libsimple_default_failure_exit (3)
if the
.BR libsimple_erealloc ()
function is used.
.PP
The
.BR libsimple_enrealloc ()
and
.BR libsimple_erealloc ()
functions behaviour is unspecified if
.I n
is 0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR libsimple_enrealloc ()
and
.BR libsimple_erealloc ()
functions return a pointer to the allocated memory
upon success completion; otherwise the process is terminated.
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR libsimple_enrealloc ()
and
.BR libsimple_erealloc ()
functions will terminate the process on failure.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR libsimple_enrealloc (),
.br
.BR libsimple_erealloc ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_enrealloc (),
.br
.BR libsimple_erealloc ()
T}	Async-signal safety	AS-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_enrealloc (),
.br
.BR libsimple_erealloc ()
T}	Async-cancel safety	AC-Safe
.TE
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.
.SH NOTES
None.
.SH BUGS
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsimple_enmalloc (3),
.BR libsimple_mallocz (3),
.BR libsimple_vmallocn (3),
.BR libsimple_vmalloczn (3),
.BR libsimple_encalloc (3),
.BR libsimple_vcallocn (3),
.BR libsimple_vreallocn (3),
.BR libsimple_memalign (3),
.BR libsimple_memalignz (3),
.BR libsimple_vmemalignn (3),
.BR libsimple_vmemalignzn (3),
.BR libsimple_enposix_memalign (3),
.BR libsimple_posix_memalignz (3),
.BR libsimple_vposix_memalignn (3),
.BR libsimple_vposix_memalignzn (3),
.BR libsimple_enaligned_alloc (3),
.BR libsimple_aligned_allocz (3),
.BR libsimple_valigned_allocn (3),
.BR libsimple_valigned_alloczn (3),
.BR libsimple_pvalloc (3),
.BR libsimple_pvallocz (3),
.BR libsimple_vpvallocn (3),
.BR libsimple_vpvalloczn (3),
.BR libsimple_valloc (3),
.BR libsimple_vallocz (3),
.BR libsimple_vvallocn (3),
.BR libsimple_vvalloczn (3),
.BR libsimple_vmemalloc (3),
.BR libsimple_varrayalloc (3),
.BR realloc (3)
