.TH LIBSIMPLE_TIMESPECTOSTR 3 2018-10-30 libsimple
.SH NAME
libsimple_timespectostr, libsimple_timevaltostr \- convert a duration data structure to a string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libsimple.h>

char *libsimple_timespectostr(char *restrict \fIbuf\fP, const struct timespec *restrict \fIts\fP);
char *libsimple_timevaltostr(char *restrict \fIbuf\fP, const struct timeval *restrict \fItv\fP);

#ifndef timespectostr
# define timespectostr libsimple_timespectostr
#endif
#ifndef timevaltostr
# define timevaltostr libsimple_timevaltostr
#endif
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lsimple .
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR libsimple_timespectostr ()
and
.BR libsimple_timevaltostr ()
functions convert
.I ts
and
.IR tv ,
respectively, to a textual represention contain only a
real value of the number of seconds the input represents.
.PP
If
.I buf
is
.BR NULL ,
a new pointer is allocated, otherwise
.I buf
is used as storage buffer for the string and is returned.
Unless
.I buf
is
.BR NULL ,
it should be at least
.I INTSTRLEN(time_t)+12
bytes for the
.BR libsimple_timespectostr ()
function, and less 3 bytes
for the
.BR libsimple_timevaltostr ()
function.
.PP
The returned string will always start with either a
.B +
or a
.BR \- ,
and will always contain 9 (for the
.BR libsimple_timespectostr ()
function) or 6 (for the
.BR libsimple_timevaltostr ()
function) decimals.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR libsimple_timespectostr ()
and
.BR libsimple_timevaltostr ()
functions return the duration as a textual
representation of the it as a real value of
seconds, without any unit included in the text,
upon successful completion. If
.I buf
is
.BR NULL ,
the returned pointer is a deallocatable, unique,
pointer, otherwise the pointer
.I buf
is returned. On failure,
.B NULL
is returned.
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR libsimple_timespectostr ()
and
.BR libsimple_timevaltostr ()
functions fail if:
.TP
.B ENOMEM
.I buf
is
.B NULL
and the call to
.BR malloc (3)
failed because it could not allocate enough memory.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I ts->tv_nsec
is negative or greater than 999\ 999\ 999, or
.I tv->tv_usec
is negative or greater than 999\ 999, or
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR libsimple_timespectostr ()
.br
.BR libsimple_timevaltostr ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_timespectostr ()
.br
.BR libsimple_timevaltostr ()
T}	Async-signal safety	AS-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_timespectostr ()
.br
.BR libsimple_timevaltostr ()
T}	Async-cancel safety	AC-Safe
.TE
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.
.SH NOTES
None.
.SH BUGS
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsimple_minimise_number_string (3),
.BR libsimple_sumtimespec (3),
.BR libsimple_difftimespec (3),
.BR libsimple_multimespec (3),
.BR libsimple_cmptimespec (3),
.BR libsimple_strtotimespec (3),
.BR libsimple_timespectodouble (3),
.BR libsimple_doubletotimespec (3),
.BR libsimple_timeval2timespec (3)
