.TH LIBSIMPLE_MEMCASEMEM 3 libsimple
.SH NAME
libsimple_memcasemem \- find byte string in memory

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libsimple.h>

void *libsimple_memcasemem(const void *\fIhaystack\fP, size_t \fInhaystack\fP, const void *\fIneedle\fP, size_t \fInneedle\fP);

#ifndef memcasemem
# define memcasemem libsimple_memcasemem
#endif
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lsimple .

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR libsimple_memcasemem ()
function scans the memory segment
.IR haystack ,
with the size
.IR nhaystack ,
for the first occurence of the byte string
.I needle
with the size
.IR nneedle .
.PP
The comparison is case-insensitive.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR libsimple_memcasemem ()
function returns the pointer
.I s
with a minimal offset such that
.IR !memcasecmp(r,needle,nneedle) ,
where
.I r
is the returned pointer.
If no such offset exists,
.B NULL
is returned.

.SH ERRORS
The
.BR libsimple_memcasemem ()
function cannot fail.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR libsimple_memcasemem ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_memcasemem ()
T}	Async-signal safety	AS-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_memcasemem ()
T}	Async-cancel safety	AC-Safe
.TE

.SH EXAMPLES
None.

.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.

.SH RATIONALE
None.

.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.

.SH NOTES
None.

.SH BUGS
None.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsimple_memmem (3),
.BR libsimple_memrcasemem (3),
.BR libsimple_memcasechr (3),
.BR libsimple_strncasestr (3),
.BR libsimple_strcasestr (3)
