.TH LIBSIMPLE_STRTOTIMESPEC 3 libsimple
.SH NAME
libsimple_strtotimespec, libsimple_strtotimeval \- convert a string to a duration data structure

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libsimple.h>

int libsimple_strtotimespec(struct timespec *restrict \fIts\fP, const char *\fIs\fP, char **\fIend\fP);
int libsimple_strtotimeval(struct timeval *restrict \fItv\fP, const char *\fIs\fP, char **\fIend\fP);

#ifndef strtotimespec
# define strtotimespec libsimple_strtotimespec
#endif
#ifndef strtotimeval
# define strtotimeval libsimple_strtotimeval
#endif
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lsimple .

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR libsimple_strtotimespec ()
and
.BR libsimple_strtotimeval ()
functions will parse the string
.IR s ,
representing a real value of number of seconds,
and store the value in
.I ts
and
.R tv
respectively, rounding to the nearest nanosecond
(for the
.BR libsimple_strtotimespec ())
or microsecond
(for the
.BR libsimple_strtotimeval ()).
These functions will ignore any leading whitespace
and byte where the parsing stopped, as
.I s
with an offset, to
.IR end .
The parsed part of
.I s
must contain atleast one digit and be on the
format
.BR [+-]\e?[0-9]*\e(\e.[0-9]*\e(\e.[0-9]*\e|([0-9]*)\e)\e?\e)\e? .
where the digits in
.BR \e2 ,
if any, are repeating decimals and must contain atleast
one digit if it is included.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR libsimple_strtotimespec ()
and
.BR libsimple_strtotimeval ()
functions return 0 upon successful completion;
otherwise \-1 is returned.

.SH ERRORS
The
.BR libsimple_strtotimespec ()
and
.BR libsimple_strtotimeval ()
functions fail if:
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I s
does not represent a real value in a recognised format.
.I *end
will not be set.
.TP
.B ERANGE
The result is too large or too small to be store. Either
.I *ts
will be set to
.I {.tv_sec=TIME_MAX,.tv_nsec=999999999L}
and
.I *tv
set to
.I {.tv_sec=TIME_MAX,.tv_usec=999999L}
(if the result is too large) or to
.I {.tv_sec=TIME_MIN,.tv_nsec=0L}
and
.I {.tv_sec=TIME_MIN,.tv_usec=0L}
(if the result is too small).
.I *end
will be set.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR libsimple_strtotimespec ()
.br
.BR libsimple_strtotimeval ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_strtotimespec ()
.br
.BR libsimple_strtotimeval ()
T}	Async-signal safety	AS-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_strtotimespec ()
.br
.BR libsimple_strtotimeval ()
T}	Async-cancel safety	AC-Safe
.TE

.SH EXAMPLES
None.

.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.

.SH RATIONALE
None.

.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.

.SH NOTES
None.

.SH BUGS
None.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsimple_sumtimespec (3),
.BR libsimple_difftimespec (3),
.BR libsimple_multimespec (3),
.BR libsimple_cmptimespec (3),
.BR libsimple_timespectostr (3),
.BR libsimple_timespectodouble (3),
.BR libsimple_doubletotimespec (3),
.BR libsimple_timeval2timespec (3)
