.TH LIBSIMPLE_DOUBLETOTIMESPEC 3 2018-10-30 libsimple
.SH NAME
libsimple_doubletotimespec, libsimple_doubletotimeval \- convert a double to a duration data structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libsimple.h>

void libsimple_doubletotimespec(struct timespec *\fIts\fP, double \fId\fP);
void libsimple_doubletotimeval(struct timeval *\fItv\fP, double \fId\fP);

#ifndef doubletotimespec
# define doubletotimespec libsimple_doubletotimespec
#endif
#ifndef doubletotimeval
# define doubletotimeval libsimple_doubletotimeval
#endif
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lsimple .
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR libsimple_doubletotimespec ()
function converts the real value
.I d
to a
.B struct timespec
and stores the result in
.IR ts .
The
.BR libsimple_doubletotimeval ()
function converts the real value
.I d
to a
.B struct timeval
and stores the result in
.IR tv .
.PP
Neither of these functions perform an overflow check.
.SH RETURN VALUE
None.
.SH ERRORS
No error checks are made.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR libsimple_doubletotimespec ()
.br
.BR libsimple_doubletotimeval ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_doubletotimespec ()
.br
.BR libsimple_doubletotimeval ()
T}	Async-signal safety	AS-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_doubletotimespec ()
.br
.BR libsimple_doubletotimeval ()
T}	Async-cancel safety	AC-Safe
.TE
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.
.SH NOTES
None.
.SH BUGS
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsimple_sumtimespec (3),
.BR libsimple_difftimespec (3),
.BR libsimple_multimespec (3),
.BR libsimple_cmptimespec (3),
.BR libsimple_timespectostr (3),
.BR libsimple_strtotimespec (3),
.BR libsimple_timespectodouble (3),
.BR libsimple_timeval2timespec (3)
