.TH LIBSIMPLE_REALLOCARRAYF 3 libsimple
.SH NAME
libsimple_reallocarrayf \- reallocate memory

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libsimple.h>

inline void *libsimple_reallocarrayf(void *\fIptr\fP, size_t \fIn\fP, size_t \fIm\fP);

#ifndef reallocarrayf
# define reallocarrayf libsimple_reallocarrayf
#endif
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lsimple .

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR libsimple_reallocarrayf ()
function is a wrapper for the
.BR realloc(3)
function that reallocates memory allocated on
the heap and return the older pointer or a new
pointer with the alignment of
.I alignof(max_align_t)
to the allocated memory of 
.I n*m
bytes. The returned pointer will contain the
same content as
.IR ptr ,
but truncated to
.I n*m
bytes if it is smaller or with the new bytes
uninitialised if it is larger. If a new pointer
is returned, rather than
.IR ptr ,
.I ptr
is deallocated;
.I ptr
is deallocated on failure. The function
.BR free (3)
shall be called with the returned pointer as
input when the allocated memory is no longer needed.
.PP
If
.I n
or
.I m
is 0,
.I ptr
is deallocaed and
.B NULL
is returned, however portable applications should,
unless the namespaced alias is used, assume the
behaviour is unspecifed in this case.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR libsimple_reallocarrayf (),
function returns a pointer to the allocated memory
upon success completion; otherwise the
.BR libsimple_reallocarrayf ()
function returns
.B NULL
and set
.I errno
it indicate the error.

.SH ERRORS
The
.BR libsimple_reallocarrayf ()
function will fail for the reasons specified for the
.BR realloc (3)
function.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR libsimple_reallocarrayf ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_reallocarrayf ()
T}	Async-signal safety	AS-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_reallocarrayf ()
T}	Async-cancel safety	AC-Safe
.TE

.SH EXAMPLES
None.

.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.

.SH RATIONALE
None.

.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.

.SH NOTES
None.

.SH BUGS
None.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsimple_enmalloc (3),
.BR libsimple_mallocz (3),
.BR libsimple_vmallocn (3),
.BR libsimple_vmalloczn (3),
.BR libsimple_encalloc (3),
.BR libsimple_vcallocn (3),
.BR libsimple_enrealloc (3),
.BR libsimple_reallocarray (3),
.BR libsimple_vreallocn (3),
.BR libsimple_reallocf (3),
.BR libsimple_vreallocfn (3),
.BR libsimple_aligned_realloc (3),
.BR libsimple_aligned_reallocarray (3),
.BR libsimple_aligned_vreallocn (3),
.BR libsimple_aligned_reallocf (3),
.BR libsimple_aligned_reallocarrayf (3),
.BR libsimple_aligned_vreallocfn (3),
.BR libsimple_memalign (3),
.BR libsimple_memalignz (3),
.BR libsimple_vmemalignn (3),
.BR libsimple_vmemalignzn (3),
.BR libsimple_enposix_memalign (3),
.BR libsimple_posix_memalignz (3),
.BR libsimple_vposix_memalignn (3),
.BR libsimple_vposix_memalignzn (3),
.BR libsimple_enaligned_alloc (3),
.BR libsimple_aligned_allocz (3),
.BR libsimple_valigned_allocn (3),
.BR libsimple_valigned_alloczn (3),
.BR libsimple_pvalloc (3),
.BR libsimple_pvallocz (3),
.BR libsimple_vpvallocn (3),
.BR libsimple_vpvalloczn (3),
.BR libsimple_valloc (3),
.BR libsimple_vallocz (3),
.BR libsimple_vvallocn (3),
.BR libsimple_vvalloczn (3),
.BR libsimple_vmemalloc (3),
.BR libsimple_varrayalloc (3),
.BR malloc (3)
