.TH LIBSIMPLE_STRNSET 3 libsimple
.SH NAME
libsimple_strnset, libsimple_stpnset \- fill a string with a character

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libsimple.h>

inline char *libsimple_strnset(char *\fIs\fP, int \fIc\fP, size_t \fIn\fP);
inline char *libsimple_stpnset(char *\fIs\fP, int \fIc\fP, size_t \fIn\fP);

#ifndef strnset
# define strnset libsimple_strnset
#endif
#ifndef stpnset
# define stpnset libsimple_stpnset
#endif
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lsimple .

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR libsimple_strnset ()
and
.BR libsimple_stpnset ()
functions replace the
.I n
characters in the string
.I s
(or all characters if
.I s
is shorter) with the character
.IR c .

.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR libsimple_strnset ()
function returns the pointer
.IR s .
The
.BR libsimple_strnset ()
function returns the end of
.I s
(that is
.IR &s[strnlen(s,n)] ,
as evaluated before the function call.

.SH ERRORS
The
.BR libsimple_strnset ()
and
.BR libsimple_stpnset ()
functions cannot fail.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR libsimple_strnset (),
.br
.BR libsimple_stpnset ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_strnset (),
.br
.BR libsimple_stpnset ()
T}	Async-signal safety	AS-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_strnset (),
.br
.BR libsimple_stpnset ()
T}	Async-cancel safety	AC-Safe
.TE

.SH EXAMPLES
None.

.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.

.SH RATIONALE
None.

.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.

.SH NOTES
None.

.SH HISTORY
libsimple 1.1

.SH BUGS
None.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsimple_strset (3),
.BR libsimple_mempset (3),
.BR strncpy (3),
.BR stpncpy (3),
.BR memset (3)
