.TH LIBSIMPLE_STRNCASECHRNUL 3 2018-10-21 libsimple
.SH NAME
libsimple_strncasechrnul \- find a character in a string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libsimple.h>

char *libsimple_strncasechrnul(const char *\fIs\fP, int \fIc\fP, size_t \fIn\fP);

#ifndef strncasechrnul
# define strncasechrnul libsimple_strncasechrnul
#endif
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lsimple .
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR libsimple_strncasechrnul ()
function scans the string
.IR s ,
truncated to
.I n
bytes unless it is shorter,
for the first occurence of the character
.I c
(it is converted to a
.BR char ).
If no such character exist in the string,
the string's end is returned.
.PP
The comparison is case-insensitive.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR libsimple_strncasechrnul ()
function returns the pointer
.I s
with a minimal offset such that
.IR tolower(*r)==tolower(c)||!*r ,
where
.I r
is the returned pointer. However if no such
offset less than
.I n
exists,
.B NULL
is returned.
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR libsimple_strncasechrnul ()
function cannot fail.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR libsimple_strncasechrnul ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_strncasechrnul ()
T}	Async-signal safety	AS-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_strncasechrnul ()
T}	Async-cancel safety	AC-Safe
.TE
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.
.SH NOTES
None.
.SH BUGS
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsimple_strncasechr (3),
.BR libsimple_strnchrnul (3),
.BR libsimple_strcasechrnul (3),
.BR libsimple_memcasescan (3)
