.TH LIBSIMPLE_RAWMEMRCHR_INV 3 libsimple
.SH NAME
libsimple_rawmemrchr_inv \- find different byte in memory

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libsimple.h>

void *libsimple_rawmemrchr_inv(const void *s, int c, size_t n);

#ifndef rawmemrchr_inv
# define rawmemrchr_inv libsimple_rawmemrchr_inv
#endif
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lsimple .

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR libsimple_rawmemrchr_inv ()
function scans the memory segment
.IR s ,
with the size
.IR n ,
for the last occurence of any byte
other than
.I c
(it is converted to a
.BR char ).
.PP
The
.BR libsimple_rawmemrchr_inv ()
function assumes there is at least one
occurence, its behaviour is undefined
if this is not the case.
.PP
The comparison is case-sensitive.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR libsimple_rawmemrchr_inv ()
function returns the pointer
.I s
with a maximal offset such that
.IR *r!=c ,
where
.I r
is the returned pointer.

.SH ERRORS
The
.BR libsimple_rawmemrchr_inv ()
function cannot fail.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR libsimple_rawmemrchr_inv ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_rawmemrchr_inv ()
T}	Async-signal safety	AS-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_rawmemrchr_inv ()
T}	Async-cancel safety	AC-Safe
.TE

.SH EXAMPLES
None.

.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.

.SH RATIONALE
None.

.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.

.SH NOTES
None.

.SH HISTORY
libsimple 1.1

.SH BUGS
None.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsimple_rawmemrchr (3),
.BR libsimple_rawmemrcasechr_inv (3),
.BR libsimple_memrchr_inv (3),
.BR libsimple_rawmemchr_inv (3)
