.TH LIBSIMPLE_MEMTOLOWER 3 libsimple
.SH NAME
libsimple_memtolower, libsimple_memptolower \- convert a character array to lower case

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libsimple.h>

inline void *libsimple_memtolower(void *\fIdest\fP, const void *\fIsrc\fP, size_t \fIn\fP);
void *libsimple_memptolower(void *\fIdest\fP, const void *\fIsrc\fP, size_t \fIn\fP);

#ifndef memtolower
# define memtolower libsimple_memtolower
#endif
#ifndef memptolower
# define memptolower libsimple_memptolower
#endif
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lsimple .

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR libsimple_memtolower ()
and
.BR libsimple_memptolower ()
functions copies the first
.I n
characters from the array
.I src
into the
.I array.
All upper case ASCII characters will be converted
to lower case. The arrays may overlap, and there
is an optimisation for the case where
.IR dest==src .

.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR libsimple_memtolower ()
function returns the pointer
.IR dest .
.PP
The
.BR libsimple_memptolower ()
function returns
.IR &dest[n] .

.SH ERRORS
The
.BR libsimple_memtolower ()
and
.BR libsimple_memptolower ()
functions cannot fail.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR libsimple_memtolower (),
.br
.BR libsimple_memptolower ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_memtolower (),
.br
.BR libsimple_memptolower ()
T}	Async-signal safety	AS-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_memtolower (),
.br
.BR libsimple_memptolower ()
T}	Async-cancel safety	AC-Safe
.TE

.SH EXAMPLES
None.

.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.

.SH RATIONALE
None.

.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.

.SH NOTES
None.

.SH HISTORY
libsimple 1.1

.SH BUGS
None.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsimple_memtoupper (3),
.BR libsimple_memreplace (3),
.BR libsimple_strtolower (3),
.BR libsimple_strntolower (3)
