.TH LIBSIMPLE_STRNCASESTR 3 libsimple
.SH NAME
libsimple_strncasestr \- find a substring in a string

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libsimple.h>

char *libsimple_strncasestr(const char *\fIhaystack\fP, const char *\fIneedle\fP), size_t \fIn\fP;

#ifndef strncasestr
# define strncasestr libsimple_strncasestr
#endif
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lsimple .

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR libsimple_strncasestr ()
function scans the string
.IR haystack ,
truncated to
.I n
bytes unless it is shorter,
the first occurrence of the substring
.IR needle .
.PP
The comparison is case-insensitive.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR libsimple_strncasestr ()
function returns the pointer
.I haystack
with a minimal offset such that
.I r
begins with
.IR needle ,
where
.I r
is the returned pointer.
If no such offset exists,
.B NULL
is returned.

.SH ERRORS
The
.BR libsimple_strncasestr ()
function cannot fail.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR libsimple_strncasestr ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_strncasestr ()
T}	Async-signal safety	AS-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_strncasestr ()
T}	Async-cancel safety	AC-Safe
.TE

.SH EXAMPLES
None.

.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.

.SH RATIONALE
None.

.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.

.SH NOTES
None.

.SH HISTORY
libsimple 1.0

.SH BUGS
None.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsimple_strrncasestr (3),
.BR libsimple_strnstr (3),
.BR libsimple_strcasestr (3),
.BR libsimple_memcasemem (3)
