.TH LIBSIMPLE_GETENV_E 3 libsimple
.SH NAME
libsimple_getenv_e \- get value of an environment variable or the empty string

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libsimple.h>

inline const char *libsimple_getenv_e(const char *\fIname\fP);

#ifndef getenv_e
# define getenv_e libsimple_getenv_e
#endif
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lsimple .

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR libsimple_getenv_e ()
function searches the environment of the calling
process for the environment variable
.IR name .
If it exists, its value is returned. If it does
not exist, the empty string is returned.
.PP
Modifications to the environment variable made from
within the process, its parent, or other ancestor,
that have not be come visible to other process via
replacement of the process image, are visible to the
.BR libsimple_getenv_e ()
function.

.SH RETURN VALUE
If the environment variable
.I name
is defined, its value is returned, otherwise the
empty string is returned.

.SH ERRORS
The
.BR libsimple_getenv_e ()
function cannot fail.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR libsimple_getenv_e ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe env
T{
.BR libsimple_getenv_e ()
T}	Async-signal safety	AS-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_getenv_e ()
T}	Async-cancel safety	AC-Safe
.TE

.SH EXAMPLES
None.

.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.

.SH RATIONALE
None.

.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.

.SH NOTES
None.

.SH HISTORY
libsimple 1.0

.SH BUGS
None.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsimple_getenv_ne (3),
.BR getenv (3)
