.TH LIBSIMPLE_VALIGNED_REALLOCFN 3 libsimple
.SH NAME
libsimple_valigned_reallocfn \- reallocate memory and customise alignment

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libsimple.h>

inline void *libsimple_valigned_reallocfn(void *\fIptr\fP, size_t \fIalignment\fP, size_t \fIn\fP, va_list \fIap\fP);
inline void *libsimple_aligned_reallocfn(void *\fIptr\fP, size_t \fIalignment\fP, size_t \fIn\fP, ..., /* (size_t)0 */);

#ifndef valigned_reallocfn
# define valigned_reallocfn libsimple_valigned_reallocfn
#endif
#ifndef aligned_reallocfn
# define aligned_reallocfn libsimple_aligned_reallocfn
#endif
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lsimple .

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR libsimple_aligned_reallocfn ()
function reallocates memory allocated on the
heap and return the older pointer or a new
pointer with the alignment of
.I alignment
to the allocated memory of 
.I N
bytes, where
.I N
is the product of
.I n
and all following arguments (which should have the type
.BR size_t )
up to the first 0;
.I n
must not be 0. The returned pointer will contain the
same content as
.IR ptr ,
but truncated to
.I N
bytes if it is smaller or with the new bytes
uninitialised if it is larger. If a new pointer
is returned, rather than
.IR ptr ,
.I ptr
is deallocated;
.I ptr
is also deallocated on failure. The function
.BR free (3)
shall be called with the returned pointer as
input when the allocated memory is no longer needed.
.PP
The
.BR libsimple_valigned_reallocfn ()
function is a version of the
.BR libsimple_aligned_reallocfn ()
function that use
.B va_list
instead of variadic arguments.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR libsimple_valigned_reallocfn ()
and
.BR libsimple_aligned_reallocfn (),
functions return a pointer to the allocated memory
upon success completion; otherwise the
.BR libsimple_valigned_reallocfn ()
and
.BR libsimple_aligned_reallocfn ()
functions return
.B NULL
and set
.I errno
it indicate the error.

.SH ERRORS
The
.BR libsimple_vreallocn (),
.BR libsimple_reallocn ()
function will fail for the reasons specified for the
.BR realloc (3)
function, and if:
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I n
is 0.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I alignment
is an invalid alignment (usually it needs to be an power of 2).
.TP
.B ENOSYS
The function is not implemented. The function requires
non-standard libc functions, and is therefore not supported
for all libc implementations.

The function is implemented if and only if the macro
.B LIBSIMPLE_HAVE_ALIGNED_REALLOC
is defined by the library.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR libsimple_valigned_reallocfn (),
.br
.BR libsimple_aligned_reallocfn ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_valigned_reallocfn (),
.br
.BR libsimple_aligned_reallocfn ()
T}	Async-signal safety	AS-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_valigned_reallocfn (),
.br
.BR libsimple_aligned_reallocfn ()
T}	Async-cancel safety	AC-Safe
.TE

.SH EXAMPLES
None.

.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.

.SH RATIONALE
None.

.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.

.SH NOTES
None.

.SH BUGS
None.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsimple_enmalloc (3),
.BR libsimple_mallocz (3),
.BR libsimple_vmallocn (3),
.BR libsimple_vmalloczn (3),
.BR libsimple_encalloc (3),
.BR libsimple_vcallocn (3),
.BR libsimple_enrealloc (3),
.BR libsimple_reallocarray (3),
.BR libsimple_vreallocn (3),
.BR libsimple_reallocf (3),
.BR libsimple_reallocarrayf (3),
.BR libsimple_vreallocfn (3),
.BR libsimple_aligned_realloc (3),
.BR libsimple_aligned_reallocarray (3),
.BR libsimple_aligned_vreallocn (3),
.BR libsimple_aligned_reallocf (3),
.BR libsimple_aligned_reallocarrayf (3),
.BR libsimple_memalign (3),
.BR libsimple_memalignz (3),
.BR libsimple_vmemalignn (3),
.BR libsimple_vmemalignzn (3),
.BR libsimple_enposix_memalign (3),
.BR libsimple_posix_memalignz (3),
.BR libsimple_vposix_memalignn (3),
.BR libsimple_vposix_memalignzn (3),
.BR libsimple_enaligned_alloc (3),
.BR libsimple_aligned_allocz (3),
.BR libsimple_valigned_allocn (3),
.BR libsimple_valigned_alloczn (3),
.BR libsimple_pvalloc (3),
.BR libsimple_pvallocz (3),
.BR libsimple_vpvallocn (3),
.BR libsimple_vpvalloczn (3),
.BR libsimple_valloc (3),
.BR libsimple_vallocz (3),
.BR libsimple_vvallocn (3),
.BR libsimple_vvalloczn (3),
.BR libsimple_vmemalloc (3),
.BR libsimple_varrayalloc (3),
.BR malloc (3)
