.TH LIBSIMPLE_RAWMEMCASECHR_INV 3 libsimple
.SH NAME
libsimple_rawmemcasechr_inv \- find different byte in memory

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libsimple.h>

void *libsimple_rawmemcasechr_inv(const void *\fIs\fP, int \fIc\fP);

#ifndef rawmemcasechr_inv
# define rawmemcasechr_inv libsimple_rawmemcasechr_inv
#endif
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lsimple .

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR libsimple_rawmemcasechr_inv ()
function scans the memory segment
.I s
for the first occurence of any byte
other than
.I c
(it is converted to a
.BR char ).
.PP
The
.BR libsimple_rawmemcasechr_inv ()
function assumes there is at least one
occurence, its behaviour is undefined
if this is not the case.
.PP
The comparison is case-insensitive.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR libsimple_rawmemcasechr_inv ()
function returns the pointer
.I s
with a minimal offset such that
.IR tolower(*r)!=tolower(c) ,
where
.I r
is the returned pointer.

.SH ERRORS
The
.BR libsimple_rawmemcasechr_inv ()
function cannot fail.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR libsimple_rawmemcasechr_inv ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_rawmemcasechr_inv ()
T}	Async-signal safety	AS-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_rawmemcasechr_inv ()
T}	Async-cancel safety	AC-Safe
.TE

.SH EXAMPLES
None.

.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.

.SH RATIONALE
None.

.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.

.SH NOTES
None.

.SH BUGS
None.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsimple_rawmemcasechr (3),
.BR libsimple_memcasechr_inv (3),
.BR libsimple_rawmemchr_inv (3),
.BR libsimple_rawmemrcasechr_inv (3),
.BR libsimple_memcasescan_inv (3),
.BR libsimple_memcasechr_inv (3)
