.TH LIBSIMPLE_STRCMOVE 3 2018-11-25 libsimple
.SH NAME
libsimple_strcmove, libsimple_strccpy \- copy or move a string within an array of bytes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libsimple.h>

char *libsimple_strcmove(char *\fIdest\fP, const char *\fIsrc\fP, int \fIc\fP);
static inline char *libsimple_strccpy(char *restrict \fIdest\fP, const char *restrict \fIsrc\fP, int \fIc\fP);

#ifndef strcmove
# define strcmove libsimple_strcmove
#endif
#ifndef strccpy
# define strccpy libsimple_strccpy
#endif
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lsimple .
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR libsimple_strcmove ()
and
.BR libsimple_strccpy ()
functions copy the string, including the
NUL byte that terminates it,
.I src
into
.IR dest .
However the copying stops directly after that character
.I c
(it is converted to a
.BR char )
is copied, and a NUL byte is written behind it.
.PP
The arrays may overlap in the
.BR libsimple_strcmove ()
function but not in the
.BR libsimple_strccpy ()
function.
.PP
The comparison is case-sensitive.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR libsimple_strcmove ()
and
.BR libsimple_strccpy ()
functions return a pointer directly behind
the position of the character
.I c
in the string
.I dest
after it was copied, if the character
.I c
was not copied
.I NULL
is returned.
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR libsimple_strcmove ()
and
.BR libsimple_strccpy ()
functions cannot fail.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR libsimple_strcmove (),
.br
.BR libsimple_strccpy ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_strcmove (),
.br
.BR libsimple_strccpy ()
T}	Async-signal safety	AS-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_strcmove (),
.br
.BR libsimple_strccpy ()
T}	Async-cancel safety	AC-Safe
.TE
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.
.SH NOTES
None.
.SH BUGS
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsimple_strmove (3),
.BR libsimple_stpmove (3),
.BR libsimple_strncmove (3),
.BR libsimple_memcmove (3),
.BR libsimple_memelemmove (3),
.BR strcpy (3),
.BR stpcpy (3),
.BR memccpy (3),
