.TH LIBSIMPLE_MEMCMOVE 3 2018-11-25 libsimple
.SH NAME
libsimple_memcmove \- move bytes within an array of bytes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libsimple.h>

void *libsimple_memcmove(void *\fIdest\fP, const void *\fIsrc\fP, int \fIc\fP, size_t \fIn\fP);

#ifndef memcmove
# define memcmove libsimple_memcmove
#endif
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lsimple .
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR libsimple_memcmove ()
function moves
.I n
bytes from
.I src
to
.IR dest .
However the move stops after the character
.I c
(it is converted to a
.BR char )
is moved. The arrays may overlap in the.
.PP
The comparison is case-sensitive.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR libsimple_memcmove ()
function returns a pointer directly behind
the position of the character
.I c
in
.I dest
after it was move, if the character
.I c
was not moved
.I NULL
is returned.
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR libsimple_memcmove ()
function cannot fail.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR libsimple_memcmove ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_memcmove ()
T}	Async-signal safety	AS-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_memcmove ()
T}	Async-cancel safety	AC-Safe
.TE
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.
.SH NOTES
None.
.SH BUGS
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsimple_rawmemcmove (3),
.BR libsimple_mempmove (3),
.BR libsimple_mempcpy (3),
.BR libsimple_strcmove (3),
.BR libsimple_strncmove (3),
.BR libsimple_memelemmove (3),
.BR memccpy (3),
.BR memmove (3),
.BR memcpy (3)
