.TH LIBSIMPLE_STRNCASEEQNUL 3 libsimple
.SH NAME
libsimple_strncaseeqnul \- compare two strings

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libsimple.h>

inline int libsimple_strncaseeqnul(const char *\fIa\fP, const char *\fIb\fP, size_t \fIn\fP);

#ifndef strncaseeqnul
# define strncaseeqnul libsimple_strncaseeqnul
#endif
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lsimple .

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR libsimple_strncaseeqnul ()
function compares the strings
.IR a ,
truncated to
.I n
bytes unless it is shorter,
and
.IR b ,
truncated to
.I n
bytes unless it is shorter,
both of which may be
.BR NULL .
.PP
The comparison is case-insensitive.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR libsimple_strncaseeqnul ()
function returns 1 if the strings are equals,
with the possible exception of the case,
otherwise it returns 0.

.SH ERRORS
The
.BR libsimple_strncaseeqnul ()
function cannot fail.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR libsimple_strncaseeqnul ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_strncaseeqnul ()
T}	Async-signal safety	AS-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_strncaseeqnul ()
T}	Async-cancel safety	AC-Safe
.TE

.SH EXAMPLES
None.

.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.

.SH RATIONALE
None.

.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.

.SH NOTES
None.

.SH HISTORY
libsimple 1.0

.SH BUGS
None.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsimple_strncaseeq (3),
.BR libsimple_strneqnul (3),
.BR libsimple_strncasecmpnul (3),
.BR libsimple_strcaseeqnul (3),
.BR libsimple_memcaseeq (3),
.BR strncasecmp (3)
