.TH LIBSIMPLE_MEMELEMSCAN_INV 3 libsimple
.SH NAME
libsimple_memelemscan_inv \- skip aligned byte string in memory

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libsimple.h>

void *libsimple_memelemscan_inv(const void *\fIhaystack\fP, const void *\fIneedle\fP, size_t \fIwidth\fP, size_t \fIn\fP);

#ifndef memelemscan_inv
# define memelemscan_inv libsimple_memelemscan_inv
#endif
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lsimple .

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR libsimple_memelemscan_inv ()
function scans the memory segment
.IR haystack ,
with the size
.IR n*width ,
for the first occurence of a byte string
different from
.I needle
with the size
.IR width ,
and with an offset equivalent to zero modulo
.IR width .
If no such character exist in the memory
segment, the memory segment's end is returned.
.PP
The comparison is case-sensitive.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR libsimple_memelemscan_inv ()
function returns the pointer
.I s
with a minimal offset such that
.IR memcmp(r,needle,width) ,
where
.I r
is the returned pointer, and such that
the offset is equivalent to zero modulo
.IR width .
If no such offset exists,
.I (void *)&((char *)haystack)[n*width]
is returned.

.SH ERRORS
The
.BR libsimple_memelemscan_inv ()
function cannot fail.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR libsimple_memelemscan_inv ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_memelemscan_inv ()
T}	Async-signal safety	AS-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_memelemscan_inv ()
T}	Async-cancel safety	AC-Safe
.TE

.SH EXAMPLES
None.

.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.

.SH RATIONALE
None.

.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.

.SH NOTES
None.

.SH HISTORY
libsimple 1.1

.SH BUGS
None.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsimple_memelemscan (3),
.BR libsimple_memelem_inv (3),
.BR libsimple_memrelem_inv (3),
.BR libsimple_memchrscan_inv (3)
