.TH LIBSIMPLE_RAWMEMRELEM_INV 3 2018-11-25 libsimple
.SH NAME
libsimple_rawmemrelem_inv \- find different aligned byte string in memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libsimple.h>

void *libsimple_rawmemrelem_inv(const void *\fIhaystack\fP, const void *\fIneedle\fP, size_t \fIwidth\fP, size_t \fIn\fP);

#ifndef rawmemrelem_inv
# define rawmemrelem_inv libsimple_rawmemrelem_inv
#endif
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR \-lsimple .
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR libsimple_rawmemrelem_inv ()
function scans the memory segment
.IR haystack ,
with the size
.IR n*width ,
for the last occurence of a byte string
different from
.I needle
with the size
.IR width ,
and with an offset equivalent to zero modulo
.IR width .
The
.BR libsimple_rawmemrelem_inv ()
function assumes there is at least one
occurence, its behaviour is undefined
if this is not the case.
.PP
The comparison is case-sensitive.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR libsimple_rawmemrelem_inv ()
function returns the pointer
.I s
with a maximal offset such that
.IR memcmp(r,needle,width) ,
where
.I r
is the returned pointer, and such that
the offset is equivalent to zero modulo
.IR width .
If no such offset exists, the behaviour is undefined.
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR libsimple_rawmemrelem_inv ()
function cannot fail.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.BR libsimple_rawmemrelem_inv ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_rawmemrelem_inv ()
T}	Async-signal safety	AS-Safe
T{
.BR libsimple_rawmemrelem_inv ()
T}	Async-cancel safety	AC-Safe
.TE
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.
.SH NOTES
None.
.SH BUGS
None.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libsimple_rawmemrelem (3),
.BR libsimple_memrelem_inv (3),
.BR libsimple_rawmemelem_inv (3),
.BR libsimple_rawmemrchr_inv (3)
